So now I want to show you how to run commands
in the terminal.
So you might be used to double clicking on an icon,
running a programme like that,
but there are some commands that you need
to run in the terminal
and I'm going to show you different ways
of installing new commands in the terminal
through different various methods.
So the very first one is
you have programmes kind of sitting all over your computer.
We've seen it earlier, LS and
a bunch of other things.
But you can do thing like echo,
it's kind of a system command.
And I can do echo hello
or echo hello world
And if I want to know where echo lives,
where that comes from,
there's a useful command called which
and then you give it the programme name.
So which echo and it will tell me
where that file lives.
So it means the,
when I run echo on this line up here,
that it's actually running the programme in /bin/echo.
Now that looks like,
so if I type in open /bin
it'll open finder for me
and it will show me everything in the \bin directory.
And you don't want to go and delete any of this
or mess with any of these files.
These are your system files.
So I'm just showing you that it exists.
So you can see that's in the root of my computer
and I have a directory called bin.
And there's a few other as well.
I've got this,
there'll be one in /usr/bin/
and a bunch of programmes that we don't need
to worry about what's in there.
But the point is,
when I type a command
what it's going to do is
look through my path,
which I'll show you in a minute,
and it will first look for echo in /bin
and then it will look through various other directories
until it finds the very first instance
and then it'll execute that one.
So if I show you my path
and I can do
echo $PATH
so this is the path for this particular user.
Now yours might be slightly different,
you may customise yours
and I'll show you how to do that later on.
And the paths are separated by colons,
so it's really to say the programme could live
in any of these directories.
So when I run something like say Hello,
Hello
my Mac says hello
but the say command,
I don't now where it is at the moment
until I type
which say
and you can see here it's in /usr/bin/say.
So if I run a command just without a prefix
it goes and looks through my computer
until it finds the right one
and then it runs it.
What about if I have a programme
in the current working directory?
So, in my home directory
I've got a little programme called hello.
Okay, it's nothing special,
it's just going to say hello world on the screen.
But if I type in hello
it says command not found.
And that's because it's looked through
all the directories you listed earlier here,
and it can't find the hello programme
in any of those directories.
Now it doesn't check my current working directory
when it runs through that.
I've got to explicitly tell the terminal
to run the programme in this directory.
And the way that we do this
is to do ./ and then we can run the command.
So dot-slash and then the name of the command hello.
Now the reason that runs is because
I've made it executable,
again I'll talk about kind of how
to make things executable
and permissions and so on later on.
But if I want to run a programme
in the current working directory,
whatever directory that is,
I need to do dot-slash first.
Now it could be that you've downloaded a zip
off like a Github project or something like that
and there's a directory called bin
so if I open up this directory
and put hello in this new bin directory I've just made
you may have downloaded a zip file from GitHub
and they have this bin directory
which we can see there
and you need to run some programme in it
so I'm going to do ./bin/hello
and it works.
Okay, so dot slash just means
from this current working directory onward.
So I can do, another thing I can do
bin/hello,
oh yeah, I can do bin because it can find that directory.
Typically we would always do dot slash.
And that's how you'd run a local programme.
So next I'm going to show you,
in the next video rather
I'm going to show you
different places you can instal applications
I quite often land on some tutorial page
that says just go ahead and instal this programme.
Typically they will tell you where to instal it from
so there's different registries of programmes
and I'm going to show you a handful of them,
one of them is BREW,
one of them will be kind of RubyGems.
I'm going to show you node modules as well,
but there's other things like
Python packages also exist.
I'm not going to show you Python packages
mostly because
me personally,
I've never been able
to successfully instal one of these things.
Quite often I'll get to the GitHub README
and it makes a bunch of assumptions
as to how it's going to instal the thing,
and I never have the right prerequisite setup.
BREW is actually very easy to get a prerequisite setup,
MPM incredibly easy,
Ruby a little bit trickier
but if you have a smooth process
then it will work fine.
So let's look at BREW next.